## Mocalc

This project came about, naturally, while using other mortgage calculators out there. I particularly like the calculator available on the [government of Canada’s website](https://itools-ioutils.fcac-acfc.gc.ca/MC-CH/MC-CH-eng.aspx). It features a helpful table breaking down all the payments made over the course of the mortgage’s term and beyond—all the way until the mortgage is paid off in full—into portions paid toward interest and principal. Not only do I find this table to be informative, but it also prompted me to learn more about how all of this is calculated, and ultimately lead me to creating my own calculator. The other great feature of this existing calculator is the Payment Diagram section, which contains graphs showing how much interest you can save over the course of the entire amortization period, and how many fewer payments would be required, with the addition of prepayments into the regularly scheduled mortgage payments.

Despite these useful features, though, there was something missing. I wanted an easier way to compare multiple mortgage scenarios side-by-side. And I wanted to be able to quickly adjust the values used in the calculations, without having to re-submit the form, or having to navigate back to the page containing the form, and then re-submit. I mean, I’m getting tired just writing down all those steps 😅. To me, this sounded like a job for React, and a great opportunity to put into practice some of my burgeoning knowledge of the math behind mortgages.

With MoCalc, I included a payment schedule table, but chose to limit the length of it to just the mortgage’s term. And work to add prepayment options is in progress. After establishing the app’s initial React components, I realized that the bulk of the work for this project would be more design-based. Specifically, considering how best to use available space efficiently in order to summarize the info from multiple mortgage scenarios at once. The goal is to write all the CSS from scratch, without relying on any existing utility or component libraries like Bootstrap or Tailwind. For that reason, I suspect much of the work going forward will be in the area of CSS; improving the composition of individual components, the page as a whole, and finding the best approach to organize the CSS code, and the stylesheets themselves.

MoCalc has become my go-to calculator. For that reason I wanted to get it online asap. However, as I alluded to above, the work on it continues. I see many opportunities for new features, and I keep mulling over alternative ways to present the data. But it’ll take a little more coding to turn those ideas into reality, so I’d better get to it!